---
layout: post
---

Today I got a letter from a student of my former class in Shanxi Province,
complaining that his new teacher is pushing too much C
language knowledge to them, and he said "we hardly can catch up with him".

He was scared, and thus bought several big books, each on _operating system_,
_algorithm_, and _assembly language_. Well, my friend, I should say you are
making big mistakes I made years ago as a Linux newbie.

Firstly big books are for systematic learning. You do not need to learn everything
in full detail anyway, you can pick up one or two big books at hand, but
never try to force yourself understand them. As your experience added up, you
will find more and more stuff in those big books start to look interesting to
you, and finally when 60 or 80 percent of the contents look really useful to
you, that's the right moment you start your learning of these monsters.

For beginners, it is definitely wrong to start from big books, like the
official manual of the tools you use. Like learning __Make__, __gcc__ , __vim__,
as beginners, you only need some tutorial of really basic stuff. And if you
start with their official manual, you are making your way to hell. 

And OK, let's go back and talk about __C__, C itself is not something big, you
can learn the basics of the whole language fair quickly. So C is maybe the
only thing I can suggest you learn systematically at the early stage of your
Linux study. The book will be the famous C Bible -- _the C programming
language_ by K&R. Well, the only problem is the English in it is too
difficult. Try to google "C tutorial" for a easier book on C as a gateway.
Anyway, learning through a whole book has its advantages. 

As a experienced C programmer, you naturally have _algorithm_ as your hat, and
_assembly language_ as your shoes. But I must say it is not wise to start
learning these thing before you know C itself well. Actually even when you
know C basics, your first thing is still not to learn algorithm , but to do
some real programming, then you maybe smell the real need for learning those
things, that's the right point to start learning. Simple truth is that you
learn sth, and you do not use it, then you will soon forget.  Learning by
doing, my friend. 

For beginners, I will say you need to know the backbone of Linux knowledge you
want to learn, by reading some introduction level articles. Google "algorithm
wikipedia" or "root user wikipedia" for such kind of things. And for Linux
specific, I will strongly recommend <http://linfo.org>. This site is like a
kind tutor, it only explain important terms, and only in the way that
beginners feel comfortable. In general, do not start everything by big books,
start by a kind tutor like Peter:), or start by friendly materials like "xxx
tutotial", "xxx beginner's guide"...


Up to this point, you may have started complaining, "Peter, you keep saying
beginners shall focus on something useful, shall only start big books when you
know the backbones, we are new, how can we possiblely know that!!!"
So now is the time I introduce my book [Linux Guide for Chinese
Beginners](http://happypeter.github.com/LGCB/), if Peter is now not by your
side, LGCB is your friend.

Anyway the most absolute failure of a teacher is getting his students
frustrated. Programming is not about reading big books, it is all about
following your heart, having some fun. Demonstrate your success by doing
some clever thing with your computer, then build your knowledge on what you
already know about. Be careful to start where you are, say
FUCKYOU to anything that is too difficult for you. Keep it simple and let it grow.

Like Linux Torvalds once said: if it is not fun, why do it?
